README.adoc, before:

# How to setup my dotfiles step-by-step
:smalinux-media-base: https://github.com/smalinux/dotfiles
:description: Setup smalinux dotfiles
:
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
:nofooter:
:sectanchors:
:sectlinks:
:sectnumlevels: 6
:sectnums:
:toc-title:
:toc: macro
:toclevels: 6

toc::[]

image::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/smalinux/dotfiles/master/screenshots/main.png[dwm-screenshot]
```
I'm using i3 & dwm - Fedora(btrfs) & Ubuntu(ZFS) ALL the time.
```
image::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/smalinux/dotfiles/master/screenshots/i3.png[i3-screenshot]

////
=== Vim
https://onebitbug.me/wiki/dotvim/
my fav terminal background color: #292E30
////

* My Network driver
link:https://www.realtek.com/en/component/zoo/category/network-interface-controllers-10-100-1000m-gigabit-ethernet-pci-express-software[r8125-9.006.04]

=== Backup EVERYTHING before ruining your machine

BlockTube
```
chrome-extension://bbeaicapbccfllodepmimpkgecanonai/src/ui/options.html
```

AdBlock — best ad blocker
```
chrome-extension://gighmmpiobklfepjocnamgkkbiglidom/options.html#customize
```

Redirector
```
chrome-extension://ocgpenflpmgnfapjedencafcfakcekcd/redirector.html
```

User JavaScript and CSS
```
chrome-extension://nbhcbdghjpllgmfilhnhkllmkecfmpld/options.html
```

=== Remove passwd
```
sudo passwd -d root
sudo passwd -d smalinux
```

=== Main setup
*Please* `MAKE SURE TO RUN .~/dotfiles/scripts/apt.sh MULTIPLE TIMES`...

Also, since there are so many private repos, *please*, configure https://stackoverflow.com/a/5343146/5688267[git & passwd] correct here.
Later on I have to automate this step.
```
sudo apt update
sudo apt-file update
yes | sudo apt install git

cd ~
git clone https://github.com/smalinux/dotfiles

cd dotfiles
./main.sh

```
=== install-*.sh scripts
run this scripts as you need.
```
dotfiles/install/install-bat.sh
dotfiles/install/install-bcc.sh
dotfiles/install/install-fd.sh
dotfiles/install/install-fzf.sh
dotfiles/install/install-mpvplugin.sh
dotfiles/install/install-pcp.sh
dotfiles/install/install-tpm.sh
```

=== Fix vim-fzf installation
```
cd ~/.vim/bundle/fzf/
sudo ./uninstall
sudo ./install
```

=== Install FZF
Don't use the package manager for this package.
```
sh ~/dotfiles/install-fzf.sh
```
you can pip any thing any time to fzf and your life will be much faster :)
```
# fzf wiki
https://github.com/junegunn/fzf/wiki/examples
```

=== Install coc.vim
```
sudo -s
curl -sL install-node.now.sh/lts | bash
exit
sh ~/dotfiles/scripts/coc.vim.sh
```
Run `:CheckHealth` is a very nice command.
```
:cocInstall coc-git
:cocInstall coc-pyright
```

=== vimspector
Install:
```
cd /home/smalinux/.vim/bundle/vimspector
./install_gadget.py --enable-c
```
bash command to copy .vimspector.json to current directory:
```
vimspector
```

=== setup your mutt
```
# config file here:
~/dotfiles/.muttrc ~/.muttrc
# then edit the file, set your passwd
```

=== How to apply suckless patches
this command
```
cd /project/dir
patch -p1 < dwm-autostart-20210120-cb3f58a.diff
```
sometimes this command fail. if he fail to apply specific hunk will generate
file called `file.rej`

so open your `file` and `file.rej`, compare ... apply them manually...

=== Update my `st` Link:https://st.suckless.org/patches/xresources/[Xresources]
Edit this file `~/.strc` and just hit this command:
```
strc
```

=== cache git password
```
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5343068/is-there-a-way-to-cache-https-credentials-for-pushing-commits
```

=== FreeBSD
```
./scripts/pkg.sh
./scripts/dotfiles-pkg.sh
```
TODO: Catch these files
```
~/.xinitrc
~/.dwm/autostart.sh
change st font dynamically with ctrl+shift+ +, -
```
* Link:https://github.com/smalinux/dwm-1/commit/8b05ae4b07195cec38db7922fa615927805b49ad[My LukeSmith dwm version - checkout here]

=== [device driver] ZOTAC GAMING GeForce GTX 1650 OC
1- disable Nouveau kernel driver Link:https://askubuntu.com/a/951892/767136[link]
2- Google: "vga zotac gaming geforce gtx 1650 oc amp 4gb gddr6 linux driver"
Link:https://www.zotac.com/us/files/download/by_product?p_nid=855804&driver_type=235&os=246[link]


=== SSH
https://askubuntu.com/a/430838/767136


=== yt-local 🥰
https://git.sr.ht/~heckyel/yt-local

redirector:
```
Description:
YouTube
Example URL:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dWa0UTkq1bc&ab_channel=BugsWriter
Include pattern:
^(https?://(?:[a-zA-Z0-9_-]*\.)?(?:youtube\.com|youtu\.be|youtube-nocookie\.com)/.*)
Redirect to:
http://localhost:9010/$1

```


=== crontab & backup

You have to re-sign with git credential again, to make it work

You can configure Git to store your GitHub credentials locally and
automatically authenticate in your cron job.
    $ sudo -u smalinux -i

    $ git config --global credential.helper store

✅ Verify Saved Credentials
    $ cat ~/.git-credentials
        It should look like this:
        https://your-username:your-password@github.com


```
# yt-local
# --------
# run:
# conda create --name yt-local python=3.9.0
@reboot /home/smalinux/anaconda3/envs/yt-local/bin/python3 /home/smalinux/repos/yt-local/server.py 2>> /home/smalinux/yt-local

# Update my Git repos
0 */3 * * * bash /home/smalinux/dotfiles/scripts/crontab.sh
```

```
sudo systemctl status cron.service
sudo systemctl enable cron.service
sudo systemctl restart cron.service
```


=== obsidian

```
sudo snap install ~/dotfiles/obsidian_1.1.16_amd64.snap --dangerous --classic
```

=== Block this stupid sites
add these lines to `/etc/hosts`
```
127.0.0.1       localhost
127.0.1.1       pc
127.0.0.1       mysite.com
127.0.0.1       lichess.org
127.0.0.1       chess.com
127.0.0.1       whatsapp.com
127.0.0.1       web.whatsapp.com
127.0.0.1       web.telegram.org
127.0.0.1       telegram.org
127.0.0.1       twitter.com
127.0.0.1       linkedin.com
127.0.0.1       instagram.com

```

=== Bluetooth management
Google: How to Manage Bluetooth Devices on Linux Using `bluetoothctl`

`$man bluetoothctl`

```
sudo systemctl status bluetooth
sudo systemctl enable bluetooth
sudo systemctl start bluetooth
bluetoothctl scan on
bluetoothctl discoverable on
bluetoothctl pair FC:69:47:7C:9D:A3
bluetoothctl connect FC:69:47:7C:9D:A3
bluetoothctl paired-devices
bluetoothctl devices
bluetoothctl trust FC:69:47:7C:9D:A3

bluetoothctl untrust FC:69:47:7C:9D:A3
bluetoothctl remove FC:69:47:7C:9D:A3
bluetoothctl disconnect FC:69:47:7C:9D:A3
bluetoothctl block FC:69:47:7C:9D:A3
```

=== VPN
https://mullvad.net/[mullvad]

```
mullvad connect # enables wireguard VPN systemwide
mullvad disconnect # disables VPN
```
- Google: `seedbox`
- Google: how to hide vpn mullvad
- Google: how to encrypt connection mullvad
- Google: how to encrypt connection vpn
- Google: how to hide connection vpn
- Google: how to hide connection vpn torrent
- Google: vpn mullvad europe torrenting guide

=== wifi Connection via CLI
https://unix.stackexchange.com/a/327756
```bash
# For a new connection:
nmcli dev wifi connect <mySSID> password <myPassword>

# Or if a connection was already set up:
nmcli con up <mySSID>

# (or if that does not work, try nmcli con up id <mySSID>)
```

Commit message:

README: view file.rst live using sublime
Signed-off-by: Sohaib Mohamed <sohaib.amhmd@gmail.com>

README.adoc, after:

# How to setup my dotfiles step-by-step
:smalinux-media-base: https://github.com/smalinux/dotfiles
:description: Setup smalinux dotfiles
:
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
:nofooter:
:sectanchors:
:sectlinks:
:sectnumlevels: 6
:sectnums:
:toc-title:
:toc: macro
:toclevels: 6

toc::[]

image::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/smalinux/dotfiles/master/screenshots/main.png[dwm-screenshot]
```
I'm using i3 & dwm - Fedora(btrfs) & Ubuntu(ZFS) ALL the time.
```
image::https://raw.githubusercontent.com/smalinux/dotfiles/master/screenshots/i3.png[i3-screenshot]

////
=== Vim
https://onebitbug.me/wiki/dotvim/
my fav terminal background color: #292E30
////

* My Network driver
link:https://www.realtek.com/en/component/zoo/category/network-interface-controllers-10-100-1000m-gigabit-ethernet-pci-express-software[r8125-9.006.04]

=== Backup EVERYTHING before ruining your machine

BlockTube
```
chrome-extension://bbeaicapbccfllodepmimpkgecanonai/src/ui/options.html
```

AdBlock — best ad blocker
```
chrome-extension://gighmmpiobklfepjocnamgkkbiglidom/options.html#customize
```

Redirector
```
chrome-extension://ocgpenflpmgnfapjedencafcfakcekcd/redirector.html
```

User JavaScript and CSS
```
chrome-extension://nbhcbdghjpllgmfilhnhkllmkecfmpld/options.html
```

=== Remove passwd
```
sudo passwd -d root
sudo passwd -d smalinux
```

=== Main setup
*Please* `MAKE SURE TO RUN .~/dotfiles/scripts/apt.sh MULTIPLE TIMES`...

Also, since there are so many private repos, *please*, configure https://stackoverflow.com/a/5343146/5688267[git & passwd] correct here.
Later on I have to automate this step.
```
sudo apt update
sudo apt-file update
yes | sudo apt install git

cd ~
git clone https://github.com/smalinux/dotfiles

cd dotfiles
./main.sh

```
=== install-*.sh scripts
run this scripts as you need.
```
dotfiles/install/install-bat.sh
dotfiles/install/install-bcc.sh
dotfiles/install/install-fd.sh
dotfiles/install/install-fzf.sh
dotfiles/install/install-mpvplugin.sh
dotfiles/install/install-pcp.sh
dotfiles/install/install-tpm.sh
```

=== Fix vim-fzf installation
```
cd ~/.vim/bundle/fzf/
sudo ./uninstall
sudo ./install
```

=== Install FZF
Don't use the package manager for this package.
```
sh ~/dotfiles/install-fzf.sh
```
you can pip any thing any time to fzf and your life will be much faster :)
```
# fzf wiki
https://github.com/junegunn/fzf/wiki/examples
```

=== Install coc.vim
```
sudo -s
curl -sL install-node.now.sh/lts | bash
exit
sh ~/dotfiles/scripts/coc.vim.sh
```
Run `:CheckHealth` is a very nice command.
```
:cocInstall coc-git
:cocInstall coc-pyright
```

=== vimspector
Install:
```
cd /home/smalinux/.vim/bundle/vimspector
./install_gadget.py --enable-c
```
bash command to copy .vimspector.json to current directory:
```
vimspector
```

=== setup your mutt
```
# config file here:
~/dotfiles/.muttrc ~/.muttrc
# then edit the file, set your passwd
```

=== How to apply suckless patches
this command
```
cd /project/dir
patch -p1 < dwm-autostart-20210120-cb3f58a.diff
```
sometimes this command fail. if he fail to apply specific hunk will generate
file called `file.rej`

so open your `file` and `file.rej`, compare ... apply them manually...

=== Update my `st` Link:https://st.suckless.org/patches/xresources/[Xresources]
Edit this file `~/.strc` and just hit this command:
```
strc
```

=== cache git password
```
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5343068/is-there-a-way-to-cache-https-credentials-for-pushing-commits
```

=== FreeBSD
```
./scripts/pkg.sh
./scripts/dotfiles-pkg.sh
```
TODO: Catch these files
```
~/.xinitrc
~/.dwm/autostart.sh
change st font dynamically with ctrl+shift+ +, -
```
* Link:https://github.com/smalinux/dwm-1/commit/8b05ae4b07195cec38db7922fa615927805b49ad[My LukeSmith dwm version - checkout here]

=== [device driver] ZOTAC GAMING GeForce GTX 1650 OC
1- disable Nouveau kernel driver Link:https://askubuntu.com/a/951892/767136[link]
2- Google: "vga zotac gaming geforce gtx 1650 oc amp 4gb gddr6 linux driver"
Link:https://www.zotac.com/us/files/download/by_product?p_nid=855804&driver_type=235&os=246[link]


=== SSH
https://askubuntu.com/a/430838/767136


=== yt-local 🥰
https://git.sr.ht/~heckyel/yt-local

redirector:
```
Description:
YouTube
Example URL:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dWa0UTkq1bc&ab_channel=BugsWriter
Include pattern:
^(https?://(?:[a-zA-Z0-9_-]*\.)?(?:youtube\.com|youtu\.be|youtube-nocookie\.com)/.*)
Redirect to:
http://localhost:9010/$1

```


=== crontab & backup

You have to re-sign with git credential again, to make it work

You can configure Git to store your GitHub credentials locally and
automatically authenticate in your cron job.
    $ sudo -u smalinux -i

    $ git config --global credential.helper store

✅ Verify Saved Credentials
    $ cat ~/.git-credentials
        It should look like this:
        https://your-username:your-password@github.com


```
# yt-local
# --------
# run:
# conda create --name yt-local python=3.9.0
@reboot /home/smalinux/anaconda3/envs/yt-local/bin/python3 /home/smalinux/repos/yt-local/server.py 2>> /home/smalinux/yt-local

# Update my Git repos
0 */3 * * * bash /home/smalinux/dotfiles/scripts/crontab.sh
```

```
sudo systemctl status cron.service
sudo systemctl enable cron.service
sudo systemctl restart cron.service
```

=== How to Preview an RST Document in Sublime Text

1. In Sublime Text, click **Preferences->Package Control**.
2. Type **install** and press **Enter**.
3. Type https://github.com/timonwong/OmniMarkupPreviewer[OmniMarkupPreviewer] and press **Enter**.
4. After installing, open a .rst file (it must be a file already [saved](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lsegal/atom-rst-preview/master/sample.rst) with a `.rst` file extension).
5. In Sublime Text, use the hot-key `CTRL-ALT-O` or click **Tools->Command Palette** and type **preview**, selecting **Preview Current Markup in Browser**.

Your web browser should launch on localhost and display the formatted rst file.

=== obsidian

```
sudo snap install ~/dotfiles/obsidian_1.1.16_amd64.snap --dangerous --classic
```

=== Block this stupid sites
add these lines to `/etc/hosts`
```
127.0.0.1       localhost
127.0.1.1       pc
127.0.0.1       mysite.com
127.0.0.1       lichess.org
127.0.0.1       chess.com
127.0.0.1       whatsapp.com
127.0.0.1       web.whatsapp.com
127.0.0.1       web.telegram.org
127.0.0.1       telegram.org
127.0.0.1       twitter.com
127.0.0.1       linkedin.com
127.0.0.1       instagram.com

```

=== Bluetooth management
Google: How to Manage Bluetooth Devices on Linux Using `bluetoothctl`

`$man bluetoothctl`

```
sudo systemctl status bluetooth
sudo systemctl enable bluetooth
sudo systemctl start bluetooth
bluetoothctl scan on
bluetoothctl discoverable on
bluetoothctl pair FC:69:47:7C:9D:A3
bluetoothctl connect FC:69:47:7C:9D:A3
bluetoothctl paired-devices
bluetoothctl devices
bluetoothctl trust FC:69:47:7C:9D:A3

bluetoothctl untrust FC:69:47:7C:9D:A3
bluetoothctl remove FC:69:47:7C:9D:A3
bluetoothctl disconnect FC:69:47:7C:9D:A3
bluetoothctl block FC:69:47:7C:9D:A3
```

=== VPN
https://mullvad.net/[mullvad]

```
mullvad connect # enables wireguard VPN systemwide
mullvad disconnect # disables VPN
```
- Google: `seedbox`
- Google: how to hide vpn mullvad
- Google: how to encrypt connection mullvad
- Google: how to encrypt connection vpn
- Google: how to hide connection vpn
- Google: how to hide connection vpn torrent
- Google: vpn mullvad europe torrenting guide

=== wifi Connection via CLI
https://unix.stackexchange.com/a/327756
```bash
# For a new connection:
nmcli dev wifi connect <mySSID> password <myPassword>

# Or if a connection was already set up:
nmcli con up <mySSID>

# (or if that does not work, try nmcli con up id <mySSID>)
```
